#  CAPSTONE PROJECT

## Project overview

  This project will demonstrate my ability to use an external dataset in Azure workspace, train a model using the different tools available in the AzureML framework as well as my ability to deploy the model as a web service. I'll create a machine learning model that can assess the likelihood of a death by heart failure event. In this project, I will create two models: one using Automated ML (denoted as AutoML from now on) and one customized model whose hyperparameters are tuned using HyperDrive. I will then compare the performance of both the models and deploy the best performing model. I will lastly enable logging in my deloyed web app, this will log useful data about the requests being sent to the webapp including the inference time and the time at which the request arrived.

### Project Set Up and Installation
OPTIONAL: If your project has any special installation steps, this is where you should put it. To turn this project into a professional portfolio project, you are encouraged to explain how to set up this project in AzureML.

## Dataset

### Overview

This is an analyzed dataset containing the medical records of 299 heart failure patients collected at the Faisalabad Institute of Cardiology and at the Allied Hospital in Faisalabad (Punjab, Pakistan), during April–December 2015. The patients consisted of 105 women and 194 men, and their ages range between 40 and 95 years old. All 299 patients had left ventricular systolic dysfunction and had previous heart failures that put them in classes III or IV of New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification of the stages of heart failure. As done by the original data curators, this dataset was represented as a table having 299 rows (patients) and 13 columns (features). For clarification purposes, the names of some features of the original dataset was slightly changed. 

Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the number 1 cause of death globally, taking an estimated 17.9 million lives each year, which accounts for 31% of all deaths worlwide. Heart failure is a common event caused by CVDs and this dataset contains 12 features that can be used to predict mortality by heart failure. Most cardiovascular diseases can be prevented by addressing behavioural risk factors such as tobacco use, unhealthy diet and obesity, physical inactivity and harmful use of alcohol using population-wide strategies. People with cardiovascular disease or who are at high cardiovascular risk (due to the presence of one or more risk factors such as hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidaemia or already established disease) need early detection and management wherein a machine learning model can be of great help.

### where you got it from.

### Task

With the kaggle heart failure dataset I'll be using the knowledge I have obtained from the Machine Learning Engineer with Microsoft Azure Nanodegree Program to create a machine learning model that can assess the likelihood of a death by heart failure event. This can be used to help hospitals in assessing the severity of patients with cardiovascular disease. In this project, I will create two models: one using Automated ML (denoted as AutoML from now on) and one customized model whose hyperparameters are tuned using HyperDrive.

#### Features of the dataset

The dataset contains 13 features, which report clinical, body, and lifestyle information (Table 1), that we briefly describe here. Some features are binary: anaemia, high blood pressure, diabetes, sex, and smoking. The hospital physician considered a patient having anaemia if haematocrit levels were lower than 36% [52]. Unfortunately, the original dataset manuscript provides no definition of high blood pressure.

Regarding the features, the creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) states the level of the CPK enzyme in blood. When a muscle tissue gets damaged, CPK flows into the blood. Therefore, high levels of CPK in the blood of a patient might indicate a heart failure or injury [68]. The ejection fraction states the percentage of how much blood the left ventricle pumps out with each contraction. The serum creatinine is a waste product generated by creatine, when a muscle breaks down. Especially, doctors focus on serum creatinine in blood to check kidney function. If a patient has high levels of serum creatinine, it may indicate renal dysfunction. Sodium is a mineral that serves for the correct functioning of muscles and nerves. The serum sodium test is a routine blood exam that indicates if a patient has normal levels of sodium in the blood. An abnormally low level of sodium in the blood might be caused by heart failure. The death event feature, that we use as the target in our binary classification study, states if the patient died or survived before the end of the follow-up period, that was 130 days on average. The original dataset article unfortunately does not indicate if any patient had primary kidney disease, and provides no additional information about what type of follow-up was carried out. Regarding the dataset imbalance, the survived patients (death event = 0) are 203, while the dead patients (death event = 1) are 96. In statistical terms, there are 32.11% positives and 67.89% negatives.

### Access
TODO: Explain how you are accessing the data in your workspace.

### Automated ML
TODO: Give an overview of the automl settings and configuration you used for this experiment

### Results
TODO: What are the results you got with your automated ML model? What were the parameters of the model? How could you have improved it?

TODO Remeber to provide screenshots of the RunDetails widget as well as a screenshot of the best model trained with it's parameters.

Hyperparameter Tuning
TODO: What kind of model did you choose for this experiment and why? Give an overview of the types of parameters and their ranges used for the hyperparameter search

Results
TODO: What are the results you got with your model? What were the parameters of the model? How could you have improved it?

TODO Remeber to provide screenshots of the RunDetails widget as well as a screenshot of the best model trained with it's parameters.

Model Deployment
TODO: Give an overview of the deployed model and instructions on how to query the endpoint with a sample input.

Screen Recording
TODO Provide a link to a screen recording of the project in action. Remember that the screencast should demonstrate:

A working model
Demo of the deployed model
Demo of a sample request sent to the endpoint and its response
Standout Suggestions
TODO (Optional): This is where you can provide information about any standout suggestions that you have attempted.
